---
date: 2010-09-02 15:26:01
layout: post
title: OpEd <small>9 years ago they unleashed hell on our ear canals</small>
tags: 
- oped
---

I've been a user for around 8 years now. It started out during the summer before
my 2nd year of Uni. My Dad gave me a 2nd gen iPod, with a stonking 10GB of
space.

At the time I didn't have 10GB of music stored as mp3s and our PC at home didn't
even have a HDD that large. Windows didn't have iTunes so Apple supplied a
plugin for a peice of craptacular software to handle syncing and that had to be
done over a firewire connection.

Since those easly days I've worked my way through 3 i-devices, my iPod(2nd gen),
a iPod nano and an iPhone 3Gs. I even strayed away for a short time with another
mp3 player whilst travelling for a few months.

The plugin was replaced with iTunes on Windows and firewire was replaced with
good ol' USB 2.0. Battery life improved and each player got smaller, lighter and
more powerful, capable of handling a multitude of tasks.

But through all this time one accessory has failed to be improved. Those damn
stupid stock earbuds.

![Apple Earbuds](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/1d/IPod_Earbuds.JPG/800px-IPod_Earbuds.JPG)

Lets take a quick look at this image, on the left are a pair of early buds, on
the right some of the current ones you'll get if you buy a new iPod. Their
aesthetic has been changed, removing the harsh duplo styling of the originals
and replacing it with a smoother softer look in keeping with the design of other
Apple products. They've also picked up a slightly rubberier edge to the bud so
that it no longer scratches quite as much as they previously did.

And yet that's about all they've done.

Over the 9 years since the original iPod was introduced we've now got touch
screens on all but the very smallest of the players. Battery lives through the
roof, _somewhat_ improved sound quality and string of other improvements.
Apple's design is sometimes called evolutionary rather than revolutionary. Yet
in the case of their headphones its practically stagnant.

So we all carry on doing what we've had to do for all these long years and carry
on buying our own extra headphones on the side.

_I wrote this whilst wearing a pair of HD380 pro's. Slightly ott, but you get
the point._



