---
date: 2010-10-19 17:21:57
layout: post
title: Kindle <small>Brilliant Idea, now when will they get back to me?</small>
tags:
- kindle
---

A couple of weeks ago whilst browsing around the Kindle store documentation
looking up using the platform as a publishing service I came across the Kindle
Developer pages and remembered having seen them been launched a few months
earlier.

When I'd originally taken a glance at the pages I didn't have any ideas of what
I could create for the Kindle, especially in light of having not had one at the
time. Since then I bought one of the newest ones, receiving mine on release day
was a fantastic feeling (especially when my iPad co-joined flatmate started
eyeing it up).

In the few months since I've gotten more and more used to simply having it on me
all the time. It's light enough and just small enough to carry pretty much
everywhere, either in my backpack or one of the large roomy pockets I have on my
coat.

Now this isn't a Kindle review, nor is it a love-fest posting about the device.
I simply want to give some context. You see I now used this thing pretty much
every day which has meant that my mind can occasionally think up little ideas
for things I would like to be able to do with it.


> As a handy tip, I've found that it'll fit quite happily inside a medium zip-
> lock bag making it quite waterproof for reading whilst on a windswept boat, by
> the beach or even in the bath

My idea for an App I'd like to make came from one of these times when I had my
Kindle in its waterproof bag whilst scuba diving up in Scotland. My hands were
damp, along with pretty much everything on the boat so taking a book was a no-
go. But I was able to read away without any problems.

Something however that I wasn't able to do so easily was record my dives in my
log book.

Previously I've switched from having a hand written book to recording all of my
dives in a digital dive log application on my lap top and mobile phone. Of
course taking either of those devices out on the open water is a stupid thing to
do, so I wasn't able to record my dives until late each day when we got back to
port.

But what if my Kindle had an App which could record that data for me? I know
that it's probably going to be safe in its pouch, and if it had some data sync
capability I wouldn't need to worry overtly if it were to be water damaged as
the data would be safe and the device itself is fairly cheap.

So please, if anyone from Amazon with the power to approve my application to
join the KDK were to read this post, please help me out and add me to the
program.

Oh and here is a video of some of us jumping in the water on that dive trip
[_via Youtube_](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gDv_kVD2O2c)
