---
comments: true
date: 2011-06-25 15:43:32
layout: post
slug: final-words-on-final-cut-pro-x
title: Final words on Final Cut Pro X
tags:
- linkedin
---

A lot of words have already been dedicated to talking about Final Cut Pro X
which was released this week on Apple's App Store.

The many new features and also lack of many has been the main topic which web
commentaries, online reviews and the general public's tweets and social media
updates have been comprised off. Indeed only a couple of days ago I created a
post of my own:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center">
    <p> So why has Apple chosen to release Final Cut Pro X now when its obviously only half baked? </p>
    &mdash; Andrew Bunday (@itwat) <a href="https://twitter.com/itwat/status/83661664628641793" data-datetime="2011-06-22T22:24:29+00:00">June 22, 2011</a>
</blockquote>
<script src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

This pretty much sums up my personal opinion of the new release, which whilst I
know counts for very little in the grand scheme of things is still valid.

For whilst I'm not an editor and have very little desire to be one, I do have
the very unenviable position in a company where it is my responsibility to try
and improve the efficiency of our data pipeline and internal company work flows.
This does mean that I have to work closely with editorial and become involved
whenever we start working with a client who wants to send us a project file or
plates in a data format. Formats which more often that not are entirely archaic.

The obvious first problem that I often encounter is that of the belief that we
should all still be converting all of our image files into DPX file format
images whenever we pass them between facilities. It's pretty much impossible to
believe that VFX or post house cannot handle OpenEXR today, and yet still we're
stuck with this legacy. One of the initial causes for not embracing EXR at
smaller companies used to be Shake's poor performance and minimal support for
the format. Shake of course has been discontinued for a number of years and it
so its only been in the last couple of years that the newer compositing
applications such as Nuke or Fusion have started to be used in companies enough
for the old ideas to be blown away. It can be mind blowing for a Sup to be
asked, "Why can't we hand on EXRs over to XXX for this shared shot?".

Coming back to Final Cut, I'm glad that Apple has decided to discard native
support for a number of ageing formats and technologies.

For example, most high end digital film cameras are now file based. Whilst some
may record onto a data tape, the recordings themselves are stored as files. The
Red One produces REDRAW images files, whilst the Arri Alexia can record to
either ProRes format video clips for immediate editing or into ARRIRAW image
files. For editors who still work in companies that are accepting tape based
video, my suggestion is to:

> Stay with FCP7 for now. Just because a new version has been released, doesn't
> mean you have to get it straight away.

Another format which is dropped to the wayside is EDLs and XML based edit
export. Whilst the usefulness of the format is undeniable, pretty much eveyone
knows it and can support it, it is old and _could_ be replaced with something
else.

I quite liked this [review](http://pogue.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/06/23/professional-video-editors-weigh-in-on-final-cut-pro-x/)
which turned up in the New York Times. Most of the points made are sensible and
rather than simply complaining the author gives solutions to many of them.

Which I guess help to round off this commentary. My final words then are that I
like the new version of FCP, that the technology which has gone into it beneath
the hood is miles ahead from where the last version but which has required much
of the old functionality has had to be dropped. New plugins will need to be
re/written to support some these functions, for which perhaps Apple should have
released a developer version sooner. and some functionality, such as multiple
camera support and project management need to be addressed until the project
can be deemed as professional.

Perhaps it should be called simply "Final Cut X" for now, with the "Pro"
monkeyier added in a few months. Either way, I hope that it encourages editors,
directors and producers to look at the way they've been working and helps them
to move into the modern digital era.
