---
date: 2011-04-24 19:13:42
layout: post
title: Goodbye Buzz
---

Dear Buzz,

You're fucking dead. Not dying. Not sick with a mortal illness. But simply and
completely dead. Whilst I'd love to say that you've managed to become an
indispensable part of my social network I simply cannot.

Taking a moment to consider why this is I'm left with the resounding realisation
that you simply have no real purpose which makes you useful. Let us look at your
competitors, starting with the smallest we have LinkedIn a social network which
started out as a way to keep track of people you had worked with previously and
to enable introductions to those whom you want to work with. Whilst it has now
become another font for banal gibberish from nameless morons I can accept it as
still having a place of worth. Even if that place is on the eighth circle of
hell (i'll leave you to ponder that one after this) inhabited by head hunters
and lazy recruiters.

Next up we have twitter, which for me is the original and best place for people
to dump all of the crap 'me too' information they want into. I'll admit that I
do it too, and sometimes it can rather refreshing to express yourself fully
within the limitations of 140 characters.

And finally for me we have Facebook, these are big guys. The guys who you are
never, I'll repeat that NEVER going to be able to compete with in this space. In
the same way that every competitor in the search space has failed to make any
real impact on Google' bottom line in the past 8 years, so to will you fail to
take any market percentage points away from Facebook.

I'm stuck with them, we're all stuck with them because they have become the de
facto place for friends and family to stay connected.

And that's it. I have no more room in my social network for you Buzz. I would
have probably left you hanging on the periphery, but today you've pushed me too
far.

You see a few years ago I posted a number of video clips on Google Video. I
honestly can't remember why I chose to do that rather than upload them to
YouTube. Perhaps Google didn't own them at that time, or my Google account
wouldn't have been connected. I don't know or care. But what I do care about is
that after Google decided to close down the video site and I decided to transfer
my old videos over to YouTube that you decided to paste every single fucking one
of them into my Buzz feed as a new and individual post.

I feel like my feed has been fucked by fucking Shire Horse on fucking steroids.
We can't go on like this. Its not you its... no actually it is you. You are
needy and irritating popping up right underneath my Inbox link (surprisingly
clever UX there by making sure that I NEVER fucking forget about you).

Goodbye Buzz,

/Me.



































































































